Why hello there in this lecture.
We are going to be working on populating our joint menu.
So when I hit join now we are going to see a cervalis that is actually updated based on the games that
are around you can see log messages finding sessions there.
Let me just prove it to you that it is actually updated if I exit the hosting session then I should
go in cancel my menu go and join again or set off a new find session and it will populate the list.
Now with the new list which is empty and that's fantastic we've got joint game which now populates with
an empty list.
Great stuff.
So let's dive in and see how we can achieve this.
So let's break down this task of populating the cervalis.
The first thing to do will be making sure that we can set the Text property on that row item.
The next thing is going to be writing a method that from the game business we can call to add a list
of server strings basically to our list of servers.
Then we're going to make sure that we can clear the previous list so that we aren't adding on top of
that list all the time.
And then we want to be able to actually request a refresh from the game instance so that the UI when
it shows the server list or when we hit a refresh button if we want to implement that feature then we
will need to request that from the game instance so were going to be using our interface that we've
created to do that.
And that's actually going to be a little challenge for you.
So let's start off with Step number one which is exposing this Text property so I'm going to head over
to first of all my server row in the unreal editor just to check what name I have given to my text element
and as you can see here the text element is called server name aptly named I'd say let's go in to the
code find our server road dot H where we are going to be adding this in.
Now what are we adding here.
Let's go in to unreal once more and have a look at the text box and see what it actually is.
If you go and have a look where it says open it says text block dot H.
So that's what we're going to need to include and it's also what we need to use.
It's going to be you text block has Remember all these components begin with you.
So you text block is what we want and it's going to be a pointer and it's going to have the name server
name.
And it is going to be forward declared as a class.
And what I'm going to do is I'm actually going to make this public.
Now typically we would have a set up for this but because.
Basically all I want all the main logic to be in main cbp are not going to bother with having a setter
here it's very tightly coupled classes which is okay when basically the server road does very very little
at this stage if we wanted to do more then yes we will get some setter's in there.
But for right now I think it's okay.
Now we do want this to be bound at runtime so we need to go in to see Maine and see how it's done we've
got a new property metter bind widget let's use that go over to our server road dot H.
Add the property buy a widget in there and let's go ahead and build and check that all works out okay.
So that was successful.
And if we go over to the unreal Ed and just check that it compiles the server row it does which means
that it must have found our server name bind widget property thing.
So that's all good.
Okay now that we have got that in the server row we can just test it out in s.p. where we're currently
adding a child wrote if I sent this text to something else so I'm going to say ro arrow and then it
is going to be the source of.
Name.
And we're going to get this server name which is itself a pointer.
So we're going to reference that pointer too.
And we are going to call set text which if you check the documentation is what we can set.
However there is a problem that we don't have the right include at this stage so I'm going to go and
add a new component here.
Is going to be hash include.
Component.
Or components forward slash text.
BLOCK As was in the editor.
Now hopefully once Intellisense catches up we will be able to have a set text method and we need to
figure out how we actually set said text.
Because at that moment you can see it takes in F text you could see that in the documentation as well.
So if you have a look at the documentation for f text which is linked against the current lecture you
will find that if we head on down this page and find basically look for a to f text section where there
is a section about conversions where you can convert from an F string to an F text and you need to use
f text from a string that's based it ought to use.
So let's go and use f text from string and then we are going to pass it in a string.
So I actually didn't need to necessarily be converted but it can do from a string then text and we can
just put it in a test text.
Like so I can build that and see if we're going to every time we add the row whether we are actually
doing the right thing I will need a SEMICON on the end of this line.
So it is going to fail to build if I haven't caught it fast enough so I'm going to rebuild.
And see what the result is.
Okay that succeeded in building.
Let's test it out if I go over to my main when you hit play.
Go to the join menu hit join a few times you can see the we're getting the test text so our binding
has worked correctly onto the next step.
Setting a server list from the game instance I'm going to head over interviews studio.
And what we're going to do is actually create macie wrap all this stuff for adding in rows.
We're going to ramp that into a separate method to go into the head of file.
It's going to be a public method callable from the game instance and it is going to be returning void
because it doesn't have any return value but we are going to be setting the server list so set server
list and it's going to be taking a list itself so a T array.
Of type f string.
And then we are going to call this server names.
Okay.
Now with that.
Armed with that declaration we can go to the C++ and implement it.
I'm going to implement it.
Just have to host before Join server because it's around that level of detail.
I think so anyway.
And it's to do with joining really.
And I am going to implement the body and I'm going to put a namespace.
Like so now I can take the contents of joined server out.
Or at least the new contents that we have added and put it over into serve a list.
And one thing I want to do actually is let's join server carry on doing what it was doing before.
So I'm going to uncomment.
I think control can control you for those of you on Visual Studio.
So that's going to go ahead with the same thing except we've got this IP address at the moment which
is not something that we can set.
So for now one going to is I'm going to comment that beat out and just pass in an empty string for the
join.
And you'll see why in a minute I want to use that as a trigger just for testing before we get rid of
this altogether.
So getting in a server list and at the moment we're just setting some basic test text.
We can actually use the strings that we're getting passed in by doing a loop so I'm going to do a for
loop.
It's going to be over konst F string references.
And it to avoid the copying basically.
And this is going to be server name in server names.
And then we are going to implement the body in the fall which is basically going to be this whole block
minus the get world get well we can just afford to do just once.
The rest we might want to do repeatedly.
So we're going to have that doing it repeatedly for each row.
Basically now we can replace the test text with actual text which is going to be the server name like
so.
Okay.
So with the server name set.
Let's just make sure all of that builds I want you want to go into the game instance and test this out.
So I'm going to go into my game and sort s.p. I'm going to do it from join because at the moment join
is not doing very much because we're calling it in the wrong way so I'm going to comment out the contents
of.
Join with control cakin or c and at the beginning of said join.
What are we going to do.
Well I am going to not do a menu to down but we do still want to check for nollman SOME going to uncomment
that bit and rather than do a tear down which I'm going to comment out.
I am going to call the menu with a set.
Server list.
There we go setting server list and what's going to be in that server list.
Well I can basically create a list I believe let's try that out see if it can just take standard C plus
plus array syntax if it doesn't we'll have to think a little bit harder.
So I'm going to put a test one as the first element and a test two as the second element.
Let's see if it can convert that into the right type for said server list and go ahead hit build and
see whether we can test this out.
Okay that built.
Now for those of you who are looking at this a little bit confused haven't seen the syntax before the
curly braces.
Here are an initializer list as C plus plus likes to call it and it is a way for initializing certain
types in this case to array except initializer lists.
And the second thing that's going on is these text items are being converted into strings implicitly
because we know that the type required in server list is a T array of strings.
So basically it's just automatically converting from these built in C types.
The strings and the initializer list in to the T array and strings.
That's nice and easy for us.
Let's go over to the engine and see if it's actually worked.
I'm going to go ahead hit play go into join and hit my join.
And they go I've got to test one test too.
But every time I hit join is adding test one test to the list again.
So we need to know how we can clear this list.
It's actually pretty simple so it's going to not take us very long at all.
Let's go in to our main menu cbp where were actually setting up adding children to the survey list.
And what we're going to do right at the beginning is just clear that cervalis before we even get the
world we're going to clear the set list actually.
Maybe we'll wait till we got the world because if we fail to ensure we are not going to be adding anything
new so maybe it's best not to clear it just yet.
But what we are going to do is go to our server list arrow and then we are going to see.
Clear I believe clear children.
And that gets rid of all the children.
Something a bit in ethical executing all the children.
But we have got rid of all the children.
So we're going to clear that list off before we go and add all the new elements that we are creating
with create widgets.
This is a fairly simple way of doing it.
You could try and find a mechanism for pooling and creating these widgets only once and then reusing
them and renaming them.
But for my opinion that's more hassle than it's worth especially when we're only refreshing this server
list very infrequently.
But obviously you can think about methods to do that you could keep a little T array of widgets that
you've already got around and only clear them up when there are too many for example.
But for now I think I'm going to stick with this.
So the build has worked let's go over into one real hit play.
Go to join it join.
And if I hit join multiple times you can see now it's not adding test 1 2 to the list multiple times.
So that's great.
We're able to set from the game instance the list of FS rings basically So that's fantastic.
Now let's have a look at how we can request a refresh from the game instance.
So as I said at the beginning of the video there's going to be a little challenge for you you know to
be requesting a refresh from the game and since the game instances is what deals with the network so
we're not going to change that and make that happen in the menu that would be a bit silly and you might
want to do this sort of stuff in a different way.
It's really up to the game not the menu system.
So let's talk about how we're going to do it.
First of all you're going to need to add to the menu interface a method for requesting the refresh because
it is the UI that tells the basically tells the game when it needs to know the serve list it doesn't
need to know at all times obviously then it triggers a find.
SESSIONS that's what the game incident should do which is obviously an asynchronous operation and once
it trigger the fine sessions then when it returns when find sessions actually gives us the list of servers
back.
That's what I'm going to need to set in the UI so pause the video and have a go at this challenge.
Okay welcome back.
Let's dive right into this so I'm going to open up the menu interface.
Dot H.
And have a look at our on a menu interface.
And the most we've got a host join load menu and I'm going to add in a virtual.
Again void.
We're not reading any return types because this is a synchronous return basically and it is going to
be refreshing the server list.
And it is going to be abstracts we're going to set it equal to zero.
OK.
So that's great.
Now we should get an error over in our game instance Scott H.
But I'm not going to wait for her and I'm going to go and proactively implement this and it is going
to be where I am going to implement it is going to be public.
I guess it can be public if we want it to be public.
I'm going to put it under load.
Where am I going to put it under under the virtual load main menu.
I'm going to put it with an override to make sure that we are indeed overriding the method that we want
to be overriding.
Then I'm going to take that declaration and implement it over in the C++.
So I am going to implement it just above where we do our on fine sessions complete because it's the
call back for this refresh server list going to implement its body and add in a namespace.
There we go name spaced away and I want to find out find sessions where it is where is it happening
at the moment.
Find Sessions is actually happening currently in our in it.
And I want to take that and move it over.
Got our session search is being created here.
We don't know want the session search would be created here once it's been created where we're actually
going to use it in the refresh.
So I'm going to take that out of that in it.
The whole block.
And we're going to take it to our refresh server list.
And implement it there instead.
So what we're doing is creating a session search checking it's valid with then going on to.
Log.
That we're starting to find a session and then we are initiating the session search.
Okay.
Now in this on session complete That's where we want to be rather than just logging out these server
names that we found we can be log in to that as well.
At the end of this we want to have a t array that we can use to set it on the menu.
So I'm going to make sure that we've got the menu here that is indeed valid and not no.
So again to say the session search is valid and so and and the menu.
Is not equal to null pointer that makes sure that we have a menu that we can use here.
Now I'm going to be building up a T array as we go along so I'm going to create first of all a T array
of type f string.
Or list of type strings.
Without the S's though and this is going to be our server.
Names.
And we are going to be adding to the end of this list.
We've got our sessions search I.D. string which is what we're going to be adding to the end.
So it's going to use server names dot add.
I can type.
Then it's going to be our search result.
Get this I.D. string session I.D. string.
That should work okay.
And then at the end of our full loop we can call menu arrow.
Set.
Serve a list with the T rate that we've just built up.
Like so.
Okay so let's see if that's going to do the trick.
I'm going to go ahead and build.
And then we can jump in and see whether we're able to find those sessions.
So that was a successful build we're going to have to head over into our project folder here to launch
up an instance to test against.
We're going to launch the game.
And in fact I'm going to launch two versions of the game so that we can see more than one thing in the
cervalis and check that we're indeed getting lists of things working not just single items.
That's quite an important test to do.
And we're going to go over in to unreal Ed and I'm going to hit play and first of all just check that
when we hit join.
Haha.
When I actually calling refractions So that's a bit of a flaw isn't it.
I'm going to have to go and update our main menu key.
When I go back over in to visual studio that is.
We're going to update it by going to war.
Where are we getting in to us main menu.
We're doing it in open join menu we're setting the active widget to join menu that would be the perfect
time to get the refresh.
Basically what do we do that with a menu interface so Id say if we have a menu interface.
Then if it's not a null pointer that is.
Then we can use it which means that we are going to call the menu interface refresh method.
To get us a refreshed server list say I'm going to call refresh server list than take any arguments
it's save build that.
In the meantime well that's building I'm going to go over to to games shouldn't matter because the hosting
code hasn't changed so it doesn't matter that I opened them before the build going to hit host on both
of them go into both of those games host and go and check in on visual studio because I start to hear
the fans on my machine whirring up.
They go from the intensity of compiling and running to these game three of these game instances at the
same time that's going to hit play again in the end of load and new join code.
If I go to the join menu and check by output log that stuff is going on.
I started finding Sasha turns and boom it is finished finding sessions and populated our server list
with these two servers if I go cancel and join again.
You see they're still in the server list but it starts finding sessions again and it's going to refresh
that server list but it has cleared it before refreshing it so everything is hunky dory.
I can check that if I exit one of the games then I would expect that cervalis to refresh when I do cancel
and join again.
Let's just do that to cancel and join.
Wait for it to refresh.
Will need some affordance on the refreshing and boom it has updated the cervalis.
That's fantastic.
Great job guys on getting through all of that a bit long but we got there in the end so I'll see in
the next lecture.